--- Page 1 ---
Created by- TopperTopperWorldWorld
Interview Question
TOP 50
--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
                                                                                                                                                                Topperworld.in 
     
Q 1. Explain the main purpose of an operating system?  
Ans :  An operating system acts as an intermediary between the user of a 
computer and computer hardware.  
The purpose of an operating system is to provide an environment in which a 
user can execute programs conveniently and efficiently.  An operating system 
is a software that manages computer hardware.  
        
 
The hardware must provide appropriate mechanisms to ensure the correct 
operation of the computer system and to prevent user programs from 
interfering with the proper operation of the system.  
Q 2 . What is demand paging?  
Ans : Demand paging can be described as a memory management technique 
that is used in operating systems to improve memory usage and system 
performance.  

--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Demand paging is a technique used in virtual memory systems where pages 
enter main memory only when requested or needed by the CPU.  
                         
In demand paging, the operating system loads only the necessary pages of a 
program into memory at runtime, instead of loading the entire program into 
memory at the start.  
 
 
Q 3 . What is a kernel?  
Ans : A kernel is the central component of an operating system that manages 
the operations of computers and hardware.  
It basically manages operations of memory and CPU time.  

--- Page 4 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
                         
It is a core component of an operating system.  
Kernel acts as a bridge between applications and data processing performed 
at the hardware level using inter -process communication and system calls.  
 
Q 4 . What are the different scheduling algorithms?  
Ans :  
1) First-Come, First-Served (FCFS) Scheduling.   
2) Shortest-Job-Next (SJN) Scheduling.   
3) Priority Scheduling.  
4) Shortest Remaining Time.   
5) Round Robin(RR) Scheduling.   
6) Multiple-Level Queues Scheduling.   
 
Q 5 . Describe the objective of multi -programming.  
Ans :  Multi-programming increases CPU utilization by organizing jobs (code 
and data) so that the CPU always has one to execute.  
The main objective of multi -programming is to keep multiple jobs in the main 
memory.  
If one job gets occupied with IO, the CPU can be assigned to other jobs.  

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 6 .  What is the time-sharing system?  
Ans : Time-sharing is a logical extension of multiprogramming.  
The CPU performs many tasks by switches that are so frequent that the user 
can interact with each program while it is running.  
A time -shared operating system allows multiple users to share computers 
simultaneously. 
 
Q 7.  What problem we face in computer system without OS?  
Ans :  
➢ Poor resource management  
➢ Lack of User Interface  
➢ No File System 
➢ No Networking 
➢ Error handling is big issue    etc. 
 
Q 8 . Give some benefits of multithreaded programming?  
Ans : A thread is also known as a lightweight process. The idea is to achieve 
parallelism by dividing a process into multiple threads.  
1) Responsiveness –  Multithreading in an interactive application may 
allow a program to continue running even if a part of it is blocked or is 
performing a lengthy operation, thereby increasing responsiveness to the 
user. In a non multi threaded environment, a server listens to the port for 
some request and when the request comes, it processes the request and 

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
then resume listening to another request. The time taken while processing 
of request makes other users wait unnecessarily. Instead a better 
approach would be to pass the request to a worker thread and continue 
listening to port.  
 
2) Resource Sharing –  Processes may share resources only through 
techniques such as - 
⚫ Message Passing 
⚫ Shared Memory 
Such techniques must be explicitly organized by programmer. However, 
threads share the memory and the resources of the process to which they 
belong by default. The benefit of sharing code and data is that it allows an 
application to have several threads of activity within same address space.  
 
3) Economy – Allocating memory and resources for process creation is a 
costly job in terms of time and space. Since, threads share memory with 
the process it belongs, it is more economical to create and context switch 
threads. Generally much more time is consumed in cr eating and managing 
processes than in threads. In Solaris, for example, creating process is 30 
times slower than creating threads and context switching is 5 times 
slower. 
 
4) Scalability – The benefits of multi-programming greatly increase in case 
of multiprocessor architecture, where threads may be running parallel on 
multiple processors. If there is only one thread then it is not possible to 
divide the processes into smaller tasks that dif ferent processors can 
perform. Single threaded process can run only on one processor 
regardless of how many processors are available. Multi -threading on a 
multiple CPU machine increases parallelism.  
 
5) Better Communication System –  To improve the inter -process 
communication, thread synchronization functions can be used. Also, when 
need to share huge amounts of data across multiple threads of execution 
inside the same address space then provides extremely high bandwidth 
and low communication across the various tasks within the application.  
--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
6) Microprocessor Architecture Utilization –  Every thread could be 
execute in parallel on a distinct processor which might be considerably 
amplified in a microprocessor architecture. Multithreading enhances 
concurrency on a multi CPU machine. Also the CPU switches among 
threads very quickly in a single processor architecture where it creates the 
illusion of parallelism, but at a particular time only one thread can running. 
 
Q 9 .  Briefly explain FCFS.  
Ans :  FCFS stands for First Come First served. In the FCFS scheduling 
algorithm, the job that arrived first in the ready queue is allocated to the CPU 
and then the job that came second and so on.  
FCFS is a non -preemptive scheduling algorithm as a process that holds the 
CPU until it either terminates or performs I/O.  
Thus, if a longer job has been assigned to the CPU then many shorter jobs after 
it will have to wait.  
 
Q 10 . What is the RR scheduling algorithm?  
Ans : A round -robin scheduling algorithm is used to schedule the process 
fairly for each job in a time slot or quantum and interrupting the job if it is not 
completed by then the job comes after the other job which is arrived in the 
quantum time makes these sche duling fairly. 
◆ Round-robin is cyclic in nature, so starvation doesn ’t occur 
◆ Round-robin is a variant of first -come, first-served scheduling  
◆ No priority or special importance is given to any process or task  
◆ RR scheduling is also known as Time slicing scheduling  
 
 
 
Q 11 .  Enumerate the different RAID levels?  
--- Page 8 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Ans : A redundant array of independent disks is a set of several physical disk 
drives that the operating system sees as a single logical unit. It played a 
significant role in narrowing the gap between increasingly fast processors and 
slow disk drives. RAID has d ifferent levels: 
• Level-0 
• Level-1 
• Level-2 
• Level-3 
• Level-4 
• Level-5 
• Level-6 
 
Q 12.   What is Banker ’s algorithm?  
Ans : The banker ’ s algorithm is a resource allocation and deadlock 
avoidance algorithm that tests for safety by simulating the allocation for the 
predetermined maximum possible amounts of all resources, then makes an 
“s-state ” check to test for possible activities, before deciding whether 
allocation should be allowed to continue.  
 
Q 13 .  State the main difference between logical and physical 
address space?  
Ans :  
Parameter LOGICAL ADDRESS PHYSICAL ADDRESS  
Basic generated by the CPU.  location in a memory unit.  
Address 
Space 
Logical Address Space is a 
set of all logical addresses 
Physical Address is a set of all 
physical addresses mapped to 
--- Page 9 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Parameter LOGICAL ADDRESS PHYSICAL ADDRESS  
generated by the CPU in 
reference to a program.  
the corresponding logical 
addresses. 
Visibility Users can view the logical 
address of a program.  
Users can never view the 
physical address of the 
program. 
Generation generated by the CPU.  Computed by MMU. 
Access 
The user can use the logical 
address to access the 
physical address.  
The user can indirectly access 
physical addresses but not 
directly. 
 
Q 14 .  How does dynamic loading aid in better memory space 
utilization? 
Ans : With dynamic loading, a routine is not loaded until it is called. This 
method is especially useful when large amounts of code are needed in order 
to handle infrequently occurring cases such as error routines.  
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 15 .  What are overlays?  
Ans : The concept of overlays is that whenever a process is running it will not 
use the complete program at the same time, it will use only some part of it.  
Then overlay concept says that whatever part you required, you load it and 
once the part is done, then you just unload it, which means just pull it back and 
get the new part you required and run it.  
Formally, “The process of transferring a block of program code or other data 
into internal memory, replacing what is already stored ”. 
 
Q 16 .  What is fragmentation?  
Ans :  Processes are stored and removed from memory, which makes free 
memory space, which is too little to even consider utilizing by different 
processes.  Suppose, that process is not ready to dispense to memory blocks 
since its little size and memory hinder consistently staying unused is called 
fragmentation. This kind of issue occurs during a dynamic memory allotment 
framework when free blocks are small, s o it can’t satisfy any request.  

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
         
 
Q 17 .  What is the basic function of paging?  
Ans : Paging is a method or technique which is used for non-contiguous 
memory allocation. It is a fixed -size partitioning theme (scheme). In paging, 
both main memory and secondary memory are divided into equal fixed -size 
partitions. The partitions of the secondary memory area unit and the main 
memory area unit are known as pages and frames respectively.  
Paging is a memory management method accustomed fetch processes from 
the secondary memory into the main memory in the form of pages. in paging, 
each process is split into parts wherever the size of every part is the same as 
the page size. The size of the last half could also be but the page size. The 
pages of the process area unit hold on within the frames of main memory 
relying upon their accessibility . 
 
 

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 18 . How does swapping result in better memory management?  
Ans : Swapping is a simple memory/process management technique used by 
the operating system(os) to increase the utilization of the processor by 
moving some blocked processes from the main memory to the secondary 
memory thus forming a queue of the temporarily suspended processes and 
the execution continues with the newly arrived process.  
During regular intervals that are set by the operating system, processes can 
be copied from the main memory to a backing store and then copied back later.  
Swapping allows more processes to be run that can fit into memory at one 
time. 
 
 
 
 
Q 
19 .  Write a name of classic synchronization problems?  
Ans : 
➢ Bounded-buffer 
➢ Readers-writers 
➢ Dining philosophers  
➢ Sleeping barber 
 
Q 20 .  What is the Direct Access Method?  
Ans : The direct Access method is based on a disk model of a file, such that it 
is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records. It allows arbitrary 
blocks to be read or written.  

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information. 
Direct memory access (DMA) is a method that allows an input/output (I/O) 
device to send or receive data directly to or from the main memory, bypassing 
the CPU to speed up memory ope rations.  
 
The process is managed by a chip known as a DMA controller (DMAC).  
Q 21 . When does thrashing occur?  
Ans :  Thrashing occurs when processes on the system frequently access 
pages, not available memory.  
 
Q 22. What is the best page size when designing an operating 
system? 
Ans : The best paging size varies from system to system, so there is no single 
best when it comes to page size.  
There are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page 
size, such as page table, paging time, and its effect on the overall efficiency 
of the operating system.  

--- Page 14 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 23 .  What is multitasking?  
Ans :  Multitasking is a logical extension of a multiprogramming system that 
supports multiple programs to run concurrently.  
In multitasking, more than one task is executed at the same time. In this 
technique, the multiple tasks, also known as processes, share common 
processing resources such as a CPU.  
 
Q 24 .  What is caching?  
Ans : The cache is a smaller and faster memory that stores copies of the data 
from frequently used main memory locations.  
    
 
There are various different independent caches in a CPU, which store 
instructions and data. Cache memory is used to reduce the average time to 
access data from the Main memory.   
 
 

--- Page 15 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 25 . What is spooling?  
Ans : Spooling refers to  simultaneous peripheral operations online, spooling 
refers to putting jobs in a buffer, a special area in memory, or on a disk where 
a device can access them when it is ready. Spooling is useful because devices 
access data at different rates.  
 
Q 26.  What is the functionality of an Assembler?  
Ans : The Assembler is used to translate the program written in Assembly 
language into machine code. The source program is an input of an assembler 
that contains assembly language instructions. The output generated by the 
assembler is the object code or machine code understandable by th e 
computer. 
 
Q 27 . What are interrupts?  
Ans : The interrupts are a signal emitted by hardware or software when a 
process or an event needs immediate attention.  
It alerts the processor to a high -priority process requiring interruption of the 
current working process.  
In I/O devices one of the bus control lines is dedicated to this purpose and is 
called the Interrupt Service Routine (ISR).   
 
 
--- Page 16 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
 
 
 
 
Q 28 . What is GUI? 
Ans : GUI is short for Graphical User Interface. It provides users with an 
interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and 
graphical symbols.  
 
Q 29 .  What is preemptive multitasking?  
Ans : Preemptive multitasking is a type of multitasking that allows computer 
programs to share operating systems (OS) and underlying hardware 
resources.  
It divides the overall operating and computing time between processes, and 
the switching of resources between different processes occurs through 
predefined criteria.  
 
Q 30 . What is a pipe and when is it used?  
Ans : A Pipe is a technique used for inter -process communication.  
A pipe is a mechanism by which the output of one process is directed into the 
input of another process.  
Thus it provides a one -way flow of data between two related processes.  
 
 

--- Page 17 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 31 . What are the advantages of semaphores?  
Ans :  
➢ They are machine -independent. 
➢ Easy to implement.  
➢ Correctness is easy to determine.  
➢ Can have many different critical sections with different semaphores. 
➢ Semaphores acquire many resources simultaneously.  
➢ No waste of resources due to busy waiting.  
 
Q 32 .  What is a bootstrap program in the OS?  
Ans : Bootstrapping is the process of loading a set of instructions when a 
computer is first turned on or booted. During the startup process, diagnostic 
tests are performed, such as the power -on self -test (POST), which set or 
checks configurations for devices an d implements routine testing for the 
connection of peripherals, hardware, and external memory devices.  

--- Page 18 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
     
The bootloader or bootstrap program is then loaded to initialize the OS.  
Q 33 .  What is IPC? 
Ans :  Inter-process communication (IPC) is a mechanism that allows 
processes to communicate with each other and synchronize their actions.  
The communication between these processes can be seen as a method of 
cooperation between them.  
 
Q 34 . What are the different IPC mechanisms?  
Ans : These are the methods in IPC:  
◼ Pipes (Same Process) : This allows a flow of data in one direction only. 
Analogous to simplex systems (Keyboard). Data from the output is usually 
buffered until the input process receives it which must have a common 
origin. 
 
◼ Named Pipes (Different Processes) : This is a pipe with a specific name it 
can be used in processes that don ’t have a shared common process 
origin. E.g. FIFO where the details written to a pipe are first named.  
 
◼ Message Queuing : This allows messages to be passed between 
processes using either a single queue or several message queues. This is 

--- Page 19 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
managed by the system kernel these messages are coordinated using an 
API. 
 
◼ Semaphores: This is used in solving problems associated with 
synchronization and avoiding race conditions. These are integer values 
that are greater than or equal to 0.  
 
◼ Shared Memory: This allows the interchange of data through a defined 
area of memory. Semaphore values have to be obtained before data can 
get access to shared memory.  
 
◼ Sockets: This method is mostly used to communicate over a network 
between a client and a server. It allows for a standard connection which is 
computer and OS independent  
 
 
Q 35 . What is the difference between preemptive and non -
preemptive scheduling?  
Ans : 
⚫ In preemptive scheduling, the CPU is allocated to the processes for a 
limited time whereas, in Non -preemptive scheduling, the CPU is allocated 
to the process till it terminates or switches to waiting for the state.   
 
⚫ The executing process in preemptive scheduling is interrupted in the 
middle of execution when a higher priority one comes whereas, the 
executing process in non -preemptive scheduling is not interrupted in the 
middle of execution and waits till its execution .  
 
⚫ In Preemptive Scheduling, there is the overhead of switching the process 
from the ready state to the running state, vice -verse, and maintaining the 
ready queue. Whereas the case of non -preemptive scheduling has no 
overhead of switching the process from run ning state to ready state.  
  
--- Page 20 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
⚫ In preemptive scheduling, if a high -priority process frequently arrives in 
the ready queue then the process with low priority has to wait for a long, 
and it may have to starve. On the other hand, in non -preemptive 
scheduling, if CPU is allocated to the pro cess having a larger burst time 
then the processes with a small burst time may have to starve.   
 
⚫ Preemptive scheduling attains flexibility by allowing the critical processes 
to access the CPU as they arrive in the ready queue, no matter what 
process is executing currently. Non -preemptive scheduling is called rigid 
as even if a critical process enters the ready queue the process running 
CPU is not disturbed.   
 
⚫ Preemptive Scheduling has to maintain the integrity of shared data that ’
s why it is cost associative which is not the case with Non -preemptive 
Scheduling. 
 
 
Q 36 .  What is the zombie process?  
Ans :  A process that has finished the execution but still has an entry in the 
process table to report to its parent process is known as a zombie process. A 
child process always first becomes a zombie before being removed from the 
process table. The parent process reads the exit status of the child process 
which reaps off the child process entry from the process table.  
Q 37 .  What are orphan processes?  
Ans :  A process whose parent process no more exists i.e. either finished or 
terminated without waiting for its child process to terminate is called an 
orphan process. 
 
 
--- Page 21 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 38 .  What are starvation and aging in OS?  
Ans :  
Starvation: Starvation is a resource management problem where a process 
does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are 
being allocated to other processes.  
Aging: Aging is a technique to avoid starvation in a scheduling system. It works 
by adding an aging factor to the priority of each request. The aging factor 
must increase the priority of the request as time passes and must ensure that 
a request will eventually be the highes t priority request . 
 
 
 
Q 39.  Write about monolithic kernel?  
Ans : Apart from microkernel, Monolithic Kernel is another classification of 
Kernel. Like microkernel, this one also manages system resources between 
application and hardware, but user services and kernel services are 
implemented under the same address space.  
It increases the size of the kernel, thus increasing the size of an operating 
system as well.  

--- Page 22 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
This kernel provides CPU scheduling, memory management, file management, 
and other operating system functions through system calls.  
As both services are implemented under the same address space, this makes 
operating system execution faster.  
 
Q 40 . What is Context Switching? 
Ans : Switching of CPU to another process means saving the state of the old 
process and loading the saved state for the new process.  
In Context Switching the process is stored in the Process Control Block to 
serve the new process so that the old process can be resumed from the same 
part it was left. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 23 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 41 . What is the difference between the Operating system and 
kernel? 
Ans :  
Operating System  Kernel 
Operating System is system 
software. 
The kernel is system software that is 
part of the Microkerneloperating 
system. 
Operating System provides an 
interface b/w the user and the 
hardware. 
The kernel provides an interface b/w 
the application and hardware.  
It also provides protection and 
security. 
Its main purpose is memory 
management, disk management, 
process management and task 
management. 
All system needs a real -time 
operating real -time, and 
Microkernel system to run.  
 
All operating system needs a kernel to 
run. 
 
Type of operating system 
includes single and multiuser OS, 
multiprocessor OS, real -time OS, 
Distributed OS. 
 
Type of kernel includes Monolithic and 
Microkernel. 
It is the first program to load 
when the computer boots up.  
It is the first program to load when the 
operating system loads 
--- Page 24 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
 
Q 42 .  What is the difference between process and thread?  
Ans :  
S.NO Process Thread 
1. 
Process means any program is 
in execution. 
 
Thread means a segment of a 
process. 
2. 
The process is less efficient in 
terms of communication.  
 
Thread is more efficient in terms of 
communication. 
3. The process is isolated.  
 Threads share memory.  
 
4. 
 
The process is called 
heavyweight the process.  
 
Thread is called lightweight 
process. 
5. 
Process switching uses, 
another process interface in 
operating system.  
 
Thread switching does not require 
to call an operating system and 
cause an interrupt to the kernel.  
6. 
If one process is blocked then 
it will not affect the execution 
of other process  
 
The second, thread in the same task 
could not run, while one server 
thread is blocked.  
--- Page 25 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
S.NO Process Thread 
7. 
The process has its own 
Process Control Block, Stack 
and Address Space.  
 
Thread has Parents ’ PCB, its own 
Thread Control Block and Stack and 
common Address space.  
 
 
Q 43 .  What is PCB? 
Ans : The process control block (PCB) is a block that is used to track the 
process’s execution status.  
A process control block (PCB) contains information about the process, i.e. 
registers, quantum, priority, etc.  
The process table is an array of PCBs, that means logically contains a PCB for 
all of the current processes in the system . 
 
 
 
                  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 26 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 44 . When is a system in a safe state?  
Ans : The set of dispatchable processes is in a safe state if there exists at least 
one temporal order in which all processes can be run to completion without 
resulting in a deadlock.  
 
Q 45 .  What is Cycle Stealing?  
Ans : Cycle stealing is a method of accessing computer memory (RAM) or bus 
without interfering with the    CPU.  
It is similar to direct memory access (DMA) for allowing I/O controllers to read 
or write RAM without CPU intervention.  
 
Q 46 . What are a Trap and Trapdoor?  
Ans :  A trap is a software interrupt, usually the result of an  error condition, 
and is also a non-maskable interrupt and has the highest priority . 
Trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a  program used to grant 
access without normal methods of  access authentication.  
        
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 27 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 47 . Write a difference between process and program?  
Ans :  
S.NO Program Process 
1. 
Program contains a set of 
instructions designed to 
complete a specific task. 
 
Process is an instance of an 
executing program.  
2. 
Program is a passive entity as it 
resides in the secondary 
memory. 
 
Process is anThe process active 
entity as it is created during 
execution and loaded into the 
main memory. 
 
3. 
The program exists in a single 
place and continues to exist until 
it is deleted. 
 
Process exists for a limited span 
of time as it gets terminated after 
the completion of a task.  
4. A program is a static entity.  
 The process is a dynamic entity.  

--- Page 28 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
S.NO Program Process 
5. 
Program does not have any 
resource requirement, it only 
requires memory space for 
storing the instructions.  
 
Process has a high resource 
requirement, it needs resources 
like CPU, memory address, and 
I/O during its lifetime.  
6. 
The program does not have any 
control block. 
  
The process has its own control 
block called Process Control 
Block. 
 
Q 48 . What is a dispatcher?  
Ans : 
The dispatcher is the module that gives process control over the CPU after it 
has been selected by the short -term scheduler. This function involves the 
following: 
➢ Switching context  
➢ Switching to user mode  
➢ Jumping to the proper location in the user program to restart that program 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 29 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 49 . Write a difference between a user -level thread and a kernel -
level thread?  
Ans : 
User-level thread Kernel level thread  
User threads are implemented by 
users. 
 
kernel threads are implemented by 
OS. 
OS doesn ’t recognize user -level 
threads. 
 
Kernel threads are recognized by OS.  
Implementation of User threads is 
easy. 
Implementation of the perform 
kernel thread is complicated.  
Context switch time is less.  Context switch time is more.  
Context switch requires no 
hardware support.  
 
Hardware support is needed.  
If one user-level thread performs a 
blocking operation then entire 
process will be blocked.  
 
If one kernel thread perform a the 
blocking operation then another 
thread can continue execution.  
User-level threads are designed as 
dependent threads.  
 
Kernel level threads are designed as 
independent threads.  
--- Page 30 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
Q 50 . Difference between Multithreading and Multitasking?  
Ans :  
S.No Multi-threading Multi-tasking 
1. 
Multiple threads are executing 
at the same time at the same or 
different part of the program.  
 
Several programs are executed 
concurrently. 
2. 
CPU switches between multiple 
threads. 
 
CPU switches between multiple 
tasks and processes.  
3. 
 It is the process of a 
lightweight part.  
 
 It is a heavyweight process.  
4. It is a feature of the process. 
  It is a feature of the OS.  
5. 
Multi-threading is sharing of 
computing resources among 
threads of a single process.  
 
Multitasking is sharing of 
computing resources(CPU, 
memory, devices, etc.) among 
processes. 
                    

--- Page 31 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
                                                                                                                                                                 
ABOUT US
At TopperWorld, we are on a mission to empower college students with the 
knowledge, tools, and resources they need to succeed in their academic 
journey and beyond. 
 
➢ Our Vision 
 
❖ Our vision is to create a world where every college student can easily access 
high-quality educational content, connect with peers, and achieve their 
academic goals.  
❖ We believe that education should be accessible, affordable, and engaging, 
and that's exactly what we strive to offer through our platform. 
 
➢ Unleash Your Potential 
 
❖ In an ever -evolving world, the pursuit of knowledge is essential. 
TopperWorld serves as your virtual campus, where you can explore a 
diverse array of online resources tailored to your specific college 
curriculum.  
❖ Whether you're studying science, arts, engineering, or any other discipline, 
we've got you covered.  
❖ Our platform hosts a vast library of  e-books, quizzes, and interactive study 
tools to ensure you have the best resources at your fingertips. 
 
➢ The TopperWorld Community 
 
--- Page 32 ---
 
 
 
 
 ©Topperworld 
❖ Education is not just about textbooks and lectures; it's also about forming 
connections and growing together.  
❖ TopperWorld encourages you to engage with your fellow students, ask 
questions, and share your knowledge.  
❖ We believe that collaborative learning is the key to academic success. 
 
➢ Start Your Journey with TopperWorld 
 
❖ Your journey to becoming a top -performing college student begins with 
TopperWorld.  
❖ Join us today and experience a world of endless learning possibilities.  
❖ Together, we'll help you reach your full academic potential and pave the 
way for a brighter future. 
❖ Join us on this exciting journey, and let's make academic success a reality 
for every college student. 
--- Page 33 ---
DSA Tutorial C Tutorial C++ Tutorial
Java Tutorial Python Tutorial
Explore More
“Unlock YourPotential”
With-TopperTopperWorldWorld
topperworld.in
Follow Us On E-mail
topperworld.in@gmail.com
